.\" Define V font for inline verbatim, using C font in formats
.\" that render this, and otherwise B font.
.ie "\f[CB]x\f[]"x" \{\
. ftr V B
. ftr VI BI
. ftr VB B
. ftr VBI BI
.\}
.el \{\
. ftr V CR
. ftr VI CI
. ftr VB CB
. ftr VBI CBI
.\}
.TH "ATRACDENC" "1" "16 Jun 2025" "atracdenc 0.2.0" "User Manual"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
atracdenc - encode to or decode from ATRAC family formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
atracdenc [options] {-e <codec> | \[en]encode=<codec> | -d |
\[en]decode} -i <in> -o <out>
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
atracdenc is an audio converter that can encode into ATRAC1, ATRAC3
or ATRAC3PLUS compatible format and decode from ATRAC1.
.PP
For ATRAC1 (also known as ATRAC SP on MiniDisk devices) AEA audio
container is used. Only one bitrate (292 kbit/s) is specified.
.PP
For ATRCA3 (also known as ATRAC LP on MiniDisk devices) OMA, AT3(riff)
and RealMedia container is supported. In the case of OMA and AT3 container, compatible bitrates are 66150 (LP4), 104738 and 132300 (LP2) bits/s. 
The RealMedia container supports 66150, 93713, 104738, 132300, 146081, 176400, 264600 and 352800 bits/s.
.PP
For ATRAC3PLUS currently only OMA container is supported with highest bitrate 352800 bits/s
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display help.
.TP
.B \-i
Path to the input file. In case of encoding it should be WAV, AIFF or SND 44100 Khz 16 bit PCM file. \
Use - to read from stdin.
.TP
.B \-o
Path to the output file. The container format is chosen automaticaly according to the file extension. 
.TP
.B \-e <codec>
Encode mode. <codec> is a codec name must be one of atrac1, atrac3, atrac3_lp4 or atarc3plus
.TP
.B \--encode=<codec>
Alias for -e.
.TP
.B \-d
Decode mode. Only ATRAC1 is supported.
.TP
.B \--decode
Alias for -d.
.TP
.B \--bitrate
Specify using bitrate (kbit/s). It make sense only for ATRAC3.
.TP
.SH ADVANCED OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--bfuidxconst
Set constant amount of used BFU (ATRAC1, ATRAC3).
.TP
.B \--notransient[=mask] (ATRAC1)
Disable transient detection and use an optional mask \
to set bands with a forced short MDCT window.
.TP
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
ATRAC1 compatible encoding
.IP
.B atracdenc \-e atrac1
-i
.I in.wav
-o
.I out.aea

.LP
ATRAC3 LP2 compatible encoding
.IP
.B atracdenc \-e atrac3
-i
.I in.wav
-o
.I out.oma

.LP
ATRAC3 LP4 compatible encoding (low quality)
.IP
.B atracdenc \-e atrac3_lp4
-i
.I in.wav
-o
.I out.oma

.LP
ATRAC3 + RealAudio container + max supported bitrate
.IP
.B atracdenc \-e atrac3 --bitrate=344
-i
.I in.wav
-o
.I out.rm

.LP
ATRAC3PLUS compatible encoding
.IP
.B atracdenc \-e atrac3plus
-i
.I in.wav
-o
.I out.oma
